README.md, before:

# Travis County GOP Research

## FEC Research
### Travis County Party Federal Committee
- [Itemised Expenditures](https://www.fec.gov/data/independent-expenditures/?data_type=processed&most_recent=true&q_spender=C00418889&cycle=2016&cycle=2018&cycle=2020&cycle=2022&cycle=2024&cycle=2026&is_notice=false)
  - Nothing there.
- [Disbursements](https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed&committee_id=C00231688&committee_id=C00418889&two_year_transaction_period=2018&two_year_transaction_period=2020&two_year_transaction_period=2022&two_year_transaction_period=2024&two_year_transaction_period=2026&min_date=01%2F01%2F2025&max_date=12%2F31%2F2026)
  - Nothing there.
- [Receipts](https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts/?committee_id=C00418889&two_year_transaction_period=2024&data_type=processed)
  - 2,155 records.

## TEC Research
- Travis GOP Group Expenses Paid to **Mackowiak Entities/Allies** [[year crosstab](data/mackowiak_entities_payments.csv)]
  - Total: $119,910
    - GoodBuzz Solutions: $84,782 (71%)
    - Victory Solutions: $23,328 (19%)
- PACs/Candidates Paying **Potomac Strategies** [[file](data/potomac_pac_payments.csv)]:
  - Total: $1,221,497
    - Keep Round Rock Safe: $480,000 (39%)
    - Fight for Tomorrow: $132,000 (11%)
    - Save Austin Now: $121,000 (10%)
- PACs Paying WAB Holdings, LLC [[year crosstab](data/wab_pac_payments.csv)][[itemised](data/wab_pac_payments_raw.csv)]:
  - Total: $1,757,446
    - Save Austin Now: $1,630,000 (93%)
    - Make Liberty Win: $96,729 (5%)
    - Fight for Tomorrow: $20,000 (1%)
    - Travis County GOP: $9,501 (0.5%)
  
### Keep Round Rock Safe
- Has one contributor, Texas Emergency Network, LLC" for $50,000. [[file](data/keep_round_rock_safe_contributors.csv)]
- There is no street address for Texas Emergency Network, LLC -- only that it's in Austin, TX 78701.
- The PAC has spent $486,743
  - $480,423 to Potomac Strategies (98%)
  - $6,320 to "Aleshire Law, PC"
  - $34,422 paid to 4 people for
  "Contract labor hours for petition canvassing and signature validation." [[file](data/keep_round_rock_safe_payroll.csv)]


### Fight for Tomorrow PAC
- Contributor information
- The PAC has spent $244,397 [[year crosstab](data/fight_for_tomorrow_expenses.csv)][[itemised](data/fight_for_tomorrow_expenses_raw.csv)]
  - $132,000 to Potomac Strategies (54%)
  - $20,000 to WAB Holdings, LLC (8%)
  - $3,067 to Victory Solutions (1.2%)
  - $4,950 paid to Matt Mackowiak directly

### Travis County Republican Party (CEC)
- The PAC has spent $473,418 [[year crosstab](data/travis_cec_expenses.csv)][[itemised](data/travis_cec_expenses_raw.csv)]
  - $72,157 to payroll using "PayChecks Inc."
  - $67,000 to GoodBuzz Solutions (14%)
  - $23,328 to Victory Solutions (5%)
  - $9,501 to WAB Holdings, LLC (2%)

### Fight for Austin
- Victory Solutions was the largest expense for Fight for Austin, at $122,858. [[year crosstab](data/fight_for_austin_expenses.csv)][[itemised](data/fight_for_austin_expenses_raw.csv)]


### Save Austin Now
- The PAC Spent $4,096,772 [[year crosstab](data/save_austin_now_expenses.csv)][[itemised](data/save_austin_now_expenses_raw.csv)]
  - Paid $1,340,836 to WAB Holdings, LLC (33%)
  - Paid $71,776 to Potomac Strategies (2%)
  - Paid $51,909 to GoodBuzz Solutions (1%)
  - Paid $12,122 to Matt Mackowiak directly (0.3%)
  - Paid $3,425 to Lauren Day directly (0.08%)
  - Paid $82,848 to Accelevate2020 (2%)

## About the Vendors
### GoodBuzz Solutions
- [Lauren Day](https://www.linkedin.com/in/laurenhartday/) is the main person there.
- On her LinkedIn, she lists herself as the "Deputy Executive Director" of Travis County GOP.
- She's also listed on [Potomac Strategy](https://www.potomacstrategygroup.com/#who) website as a "Vice President of Fundraising."

### WAB Holdings, LLC
- Was created by Mackowiak & Shannon Burns after the former employees of Victory Solutions started hunting Shannon Burns down to get their paychecks he stiffed them on.
- Victory Solutions/Burns Court Cases:
  - Real Good Technologies, LLC v. Victory Solutions, LLC [source](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCOURTS-ohnd-1_17-cv-00149/pdf/USCOURTS-ohnd-1_17-cv-00149-0.pdf)
- Articles on Shannon Burns:
  - A 2019 article from [The Daily Beast](https://www.thedailybeast.com/republican-telemarketer-shannon-burns-stiffed-the-feds-out-of-dollar411k-the-trump-white-house-gave-him-a-job/) reports Burns dodging creditors and facing lawsuits.
  - A 2021 [Raw Story](https://www.rawstory.com/shannon-burns/) piece and a [Politico](https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2021/09/24/shannon-burns-ohio-republican-strategist-profile-513622) profile detail over two dozen lawsuits against him and his companies, including evictions, bankruptcies, and back taxes totaling hundreds of thousands of dollars. These articles, published in 2019 and 2021, highlight a pattern of financial misconduct, with plaintiffs describing Burns as a "shyster" and "flimflam artist," suggesting a controversial reputation.
- Reddit Posts:
  - [Prop A Funny Business](https://www.reddit.com/r/Austin/comments/q81mjg/prop_a_funny_business/)
    - Prior to Matt Mackowiak creating Save Austin Now, he had another PAC called Fight for Austin. Fight for Austin paid "Victory Solutions", a company owned by the same person, $122,858. 
      - Amount of expenditures between both of these PACs is $2,464,834.74. 
      - Combined, "WAB Holdings, LLC" and "Victory Solutions" received to total of $1,111,350.
      - "Victory Solutions" received $0.82 of every $1 spent by Fight For Austin ($122,858)
      - "WAB Holdings, LLC" received $0.45 of every $1 spent by Save Austin Now ($988,492)
  - [Prop A Funny Business: Part II](https://www.reddit.com/r/Austin/comments/qar7fb/prop_a_funny_business_part_ii/)
    - Calculating profit/kickbacks received but not reported to the Texas Ethics or Federal Election Commissions:
      - In order to account for all the money spent, they would have to send more than 50 calls and texts to every voter. 
      - That's almost 1 call or text per-voter every day...for 17 weeks straight. 
      - It is assumed Save Austin Now did not exponentially overspend on 75% of the services they utilized WAB Holdings, LLC for, and instead use the average determined above. 
        - Save Austin Now paid the same average as Senator Cornyn, Congressman Gonzales, and Trump's campaign for 3/4 services. Roughly 5% average. $40,000. 
        - If 20 text messages and 20 phone calls sent to each of the 156,750 voters = $313,500. 
        - Typical profit margin is 15-30%. Of the $343,500 accounted for that range amounts between $51,525 and $103,050. Except Matt Mackowiak told the Statesman his firm has made $134,125. That's closer to 42%. 
        - 40 text messages and 40 phone calls sent to each voter = $627,000. 
        - 50 text messages and 50 phone calls sent to each voters = $783,750. 
        - A kickback of 42% for 50 calls and text per-voter = $329,175.
  - [Prop A Funny Business: Part III](https://www.reddit.com/r/Austin/comments/qh0qz0/prop_a_funny_business_part_iii/)
    - Current turnout for Support for Prop A is 27,271 
    - The last 2 Save Austin Now expense reports paid WAB Holdings, LLC $475,000 
    - Cost paid to WAB Holdings, LLC per-voter turned out so far is $17.41 
    - Possible amount kicked back based on the 42% margin = $7.41 per-vote cast to-date, potentially resulting in a grand total of $202,036.50.
    - $127,000 in kickbacks could've been made in only the past 14 days.
  - [What used to be "Prop A Funny Business" is now just Funny Business: Part IV](https://www.reddit.com/r/Austin/comments/zh7l23/what_used_to_be_prop_a_funny_business_is_now_just/)
    - Two non-profits, created within the last 24 months, funnel money into a Super-PAC named Fight for Tomorrow. 
    - Fight for Tomorrow has paid over $250,000 to WAB Holdings LLC and other affiliated agencies. 
    - WAB Holdings LLC was paid over $150,000 by the Republican Party of Texas (RPT) in 2022. 
    - WAB Holdings LLC continues to receive payments by Save Austin Now, and remains one of SAN's top-5 payees. 
    - A financial stakeholder of WAB Holdings LLC is:
      - A co-founder of Save Austin Now. 
      - Treasurer for Fight for Tomorrow PAC. 
      - A Republican Party executive in Texas.

### PinPoint Action, LLC
- Kelly's campaign paid $130,105 in 2020.
- Owner is 'Michael Shirley', who's LinkedIn is [empty](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikecshirley/).
- The LLC is no longer active in Florida. [source](https://www.flcompanyregistry.com/companies/pinpoint-action-llc/)
- WebArchive has a capture of the former [website](https://web.archive.org/web/20190417011050/https://www.pinpointaction.com/)
- Last post on X was December 2020, congratulating Kelly for her win. [source](https://x.com/pinpointaction)
- PinPoint Action and Potomac Strategies were the two largest expeses for MacKenzie Kelly's campaigns.

Commit message:

Added Potomac before and after 2018 revenue calculations

README.md, after:

# Travis County GOP Research

## FEC Research
### Travis County Party Federal Committee
- [Itemised Expenditures](https://www.fec.gov/data/independent-expenditures/?data_type=processed&most_recent=true&q_spender=C00418889&cycle=2016&cycle=2018&cycle=2020&cycle=2022&cycle=2024&cycle=2026&is_notice=false)
  - Nothing there.
- [Disbursements](https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed&committee_id=C00231688&committee_id=C00418889&two_year_transaction_period=2018&two_year_transaction_period=2020&two_year_transaction_period=2022&two_year_transaction_period=2024&two_year_transaction_period=2026&min_date=01%2F01%2F2025&max_date=12%2F31%2F2026)
  - Nothing there.
- [Receipts](https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts/?committee_id=C00418889&two_year_transaction_period=2024&data_type=processed)
  - 2,155 records.

## TEC Research
- Travis GOP Group Expenses Paid to **Mackowiak Entities/Allies** [[year crosstab](data/mackowiak_entities_payments.csv)]
  - Total: $119,910
    - GoodBuzz Solutions: $84,782 (71%)
    - Victory Solutions: $23,328 (19%)
- PACs/Candidates Paying **Potomac Strategies** [[file](data/potomac_pac_payments.csv)]:
  - Total: $1,221,497
    - Keep Round Rock Safe: $480,000 (39%)
    - Fight for Tomorrow: $132,000 (11%)
    - Save Austin Now: $121,000 (10%)
  - Potomac Revenue Before 2018
    - Prior to 2018, Potomac Strategies was paid a total of $115,042 across ==all== clients between 2012 and 2017.
    - Average annual revenue was $19,174.
  - Potomac Revenue 2018 and beyond
    - Potomac Strategies was paid $1,221,480 between 2018 and 2024, a percentage increase of 960%.
    - Average annual revenue was $174,497, a percentage increase of 810%.
- PACs Paying WAB Holdings, LLC [[year crosstab](data/wab_pac_payments.csv)][[itemised](data/wab_pac_payments_raw.csv)]:
  - Total: $1,757,446
    - Save Austin Now: $1,630,000 (93%)
    - Make Liberty Win: $96,729 (5%)
    - Fight for Tomorrow: $20,000 (1%)
    - Travis County GOP: $9,501 (0.5%)
  
### Keep Round Rock Safe
- Has one contributor, Texas Emergency Network, LLC" for $50,000. [[file](data/keep_round_rock_safe_contributors.csv)]
- There is no street address for Texas Emergency Network, LLC -- only that it's in Austin, TX 78701.
- The PAC has spent $486,743
  - $480,423 to Potomac Strategies (98%)
  - $6,320 to "Aleshire Law, PC"
  - $34,422 paid to 4 people for
  "Contract labor hours for petition canvassing and signature validation." [[file](data/keep_round_rock_safe_payroll.csv)]


### Fight for Tomorrow PAC
- Contributor information
- The PAC has spent $244,397 [[year crosstab](data/fight_for_tomorrow_expenses.csv)][[itemised](data/fight_for_tomorrow_expenses_raw.csv)]
  - $132,000 to Potomac Strategies (54%)
  - $20,000 to WAB Holdings, LLC (8%)
  - $3,067 to Victory Solutions (1.2%)
  - $4,950 paid to Matt Mackowiak directly

### Travis County Republican Party (CEC)
- The PAC has spent $473,418 [[year crosstab](data/travis_cec_expenses.csv)][[itemised](data/travis_cec_expenses_raw.csv)]
  - $72,157 to payroll using "PayChecks Inc."
  - $67,000 to GoodBuzz Solutions (14%)
  - $23,328 to Victory Solutions (5%)
  - $9,501 to WAB Holdings, LLC (2%)

### Fight for Austin
- Victory Solutions was the largest expense for Fight for Austin, at $122,858. [[year crosstab](data/fight_for_austin_expenses.csv)][[itemised](data/fight_for_austin_expenses_raw.csv)]


### Save Austin Now
- The PAC Spent $4,096,772 [[year crosstab](data/save_austin_now_expenses.csv)][[itemised](data/save_austin_now_expenses_raw.csv)]
  - Paid $1,340,836 to WAB Holdings, LLC (33%)
  - Paid $71,776 to Potomac Strategies (2%)
  - Paid $51,909 to GoodBuzz Solutions (1%)
  - Paid $12,122 to Matt Mackowiak directly (0.3%)
  - Paid $3,425 to Lauren Day directly (0.08%)
  - Paid $82,848 to Accelevate2020 (2%)

## About the Vendors
### GoodBuzz Solutions
- [Lauren Day](https://www.linkedin.com/in/laurenhartday/) is the main person there.
- On her LinkedIn, she lists herself as the "Deputy Executive Director" of Travis County GOP.
- She's also listed on [Potomac Strategy](https://www.potomacstrategygroup.com/#who) website as a "Vice President of Fundraising."

### WAB Holdings, LLC
- Was created by Mackowiak & Shannon Burns after the former employees of Victory Solutions started hunting Shannon Burns down to get their paychecks he stiffed them on.
- Victory Solutions/Burns Court Cases:
  - Real Good Technologies, LLC v. Victory Solutions, LLC [source](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCOURTS-ohnd-1_17-cv-00149/pdf/USCOURTS-ohnd-1_17-cv-00149-0.pdf)
- Articles on Shannon Burns:
  - A 2019 article from [The Daily Beast](https://www.thedailybeast.com/republican-telemarketer-shannon-burns-stiffed-the-feds-out-of-dollar411k-the-trump-white-house-gave-him-a-job/) reports Burns dodging creditors and facing lawsuits.
  - A 2021 [Raw Story](https://www.rawstory.com/shannon-burns/) piece and a [Politico](https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2021/09/24/shannon-burns-ohio-republican-strategist-profile-513622) profile detail over two dozen lawsuits against him and his companies, including evictions, bankruptcies, and back taxes totaling hundreds of thousands of dollars. These articles, published in 2019 and 2021, highlight a pattern of financial misconduct, with plaintiffs describing Burns as a "shyster" and "flimflam artist," suggesting a controversial reputation.
- Reddit Posts:
  - [Prop A Funny Business](https://www.reddit.com/r/Austin/comments/q81mjg/prop_a_funny_business/)
    - Prior to Matt Mackowiak creating Save Austin Now, he had another PAC called Fight for Austin. Fight for Austin paid "Victory Solutions", a company owned by the same person, $122,858. 
      - Amount of expenditures between both of these PACs is $2,464,834.74. 
      - Combined, "WAB Holdings, LLC" and "Victory Solutions" received to total of $1,111,350.
      - "Victory Solutions" received $0.82 of every $1 spent by Fight For Austin ($122,858)
      - "WAB Holdings, LLC" received $0.45 of every $1 spent by Save Austin Now ($988,492)
  - [Prop A Funny Business: Part II](https://www.reddit.com/r/Austin/comments/qar7fb/prop_a_funny_business_part_ii/)
    - Calculating profit/kickbacks received but not reported to the Texas Ethics or Federal Election Commissions:
      - In order to account for all the money spent, they would have to send more than 50 calls and texts to every voter. 
      - That's almost 1 call or text per-voter every day...for 17 weeks straight. 
      - It is assumed Save Austin Now did not exponentially overspend on 75% of the services they utilized WAB Holdings, LLC for, and instead use the average determined above. 
        - Save Austin Now paid the same average as Senator Cornyn, Congressman Gonzales, and Trump's campaign for 3/4 services. Roughly 5% average. $40,000. 
        - If 20 text messages and 20 phone calls sent to each of the 156,750 voters = $313,500. 
        - Typical profit margin is 15-30%. Of the $343,500 accounted for that range amounts between $51,525 and $103,050. Except Matt Mackowiak told the Statesman his firm has made $134,125. That's closer to 42%. 
        - 40 text messages and 40 phone calls sent to each voter = $627,000. 
        - 50 text messages and 50 phone calls sent to each voters = $783,750. 
        - A kickback of 42% for 50 calls and text per-voter = $329,175.
  - [Prop A Funny Business: Part III](https://www.reddit.com/r/Austin/comments/qh0qz0/prop_a_funny_business_part_iii/)
    - Current turnout for Support for Prop A is 27,271 
    - The last 2 Save Austin Now expense reports paid WAB Holdings, LLC $475,000 
    - Cost paid to WAB Holdings, LLC per-voter turned out so far is $17.41 
    - Possible amount kicked back based on the 42% margin = $7.41 per-vote cast to-date, potentially resulting in a grand total of $202,036.50.
    - $127,000 in kickbacks could've been made in only the past 14 days.
  - [What used to be "Prop A Funny Business" is now just Funny Business: Part IV](https://www.reddit.com/r/Austin/comments/zh7l23/what_used_to_be_prop_a_funny_business_is_now_just/)
    - Two non-profits, created within the last 24 months, funnel money into a Super-PAC named Fight for Tomorrow. 
    - Fight for Tomorrow has paid over $250,000 to WAB Holdings LLC and other affiliated agencies. 
    - WAB Holdings LLC was paid over $150,000 by the Republican Party of Texas (RPT) in 2022. 
    - WAB Holdings LLC continues to receive payments by Save Austin Now, and remains one of SAN's top-5 payees. 
    - A financial stakeholder of WAB Holdings LLC is:
      - A co-founder of Save Austin Now. 
      - Treasurer for Fight for Tomorrow PAC. 
      - A Republican Party executive in Texas.

### PinPoint Action, LLC
- Kelly's campaign paid $130,105 in 2020.
- Owner is 'Michael Shirley', who's LinkedIn is [empty](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikecshirley/).
- The LLC is no longer active in Florida. [source](https://www.flcompanyregistry.com/companies/pinpoint-action-llc/)
- WebArchive has a capture of the former [website](https://web.archive.org/web/20190417011050/https://www.pinpointaction.com/)
- Last post on X was December 2020, congratulating Kelly for her win. [source](https://x.com/pinpointaction)
- PinPoint Action and Potomac Strategies were the two largest expeses for MacKenzie Kelly's campaigns.
